---
layout: post
title: FMOD Audio Engine 02
---
#### System::setStreamBufferSize
Sets the internal buffersize for streams opened after this call.
Larger values will consume more memory (see remarks), whereas smaller values may cause buffer under-run/starvation/stuttering caused by large delays in disk access (ie netstream), or cpu usage in slow machines, or by trying to play too many streams at once.

Note this function does not affect streams created with FMOD_OPENUSER, as the buffer size is specified in System::createSound.
This function does not affect latency of playback. All streams are pre-buffered (unless opened with FMOD_OPENONLY), so they will always start immediately.
Seek and Play operations can sometimes cause a reflush of this buffer.

If FMOD_TIMEUNIT_RAWBYTES is used, the memory allocated is 2 * the size passed in, because fmod allocates a double buffer.

#### System::getChannel
Retrieves a handle to a channel by ID.

#### System::getChannelsPlaying
Retrieves the number of currently playing channels.

#### System::getFileUsage
Retrieves information about file reads by FMOD.

#### System::getDriver
Returns the currently selected driver number. Drivers are enumerated when selecting a driver with System::setDriver or other driver related functions such as System::getNumDrivers or System::getDriverInfo.

##### System::getDriverInfo
Retrieves identification information about a sound device specified by its index, and specific to the output mode set with System::setOutput.

#### System::createSoundGroup
Creates a sound group, which can store handles to multiple Sound pointers.
Once a SoundGroup is created, Sound::setSoundGroup is used to put a sound in a SoundGroup.

#### System::createStream
Opens a sound for streaming. This function is a helper function that is the same as System::createSound but has the FMOD_CREATESTREAM flag added internally.

Note that a stream only has 1 decode buffer and file handle, and therefore can only be played once. It cannot play multiple times at once because it cannot share a stream buffer if the stream is playing at different positions.

Open multiple streams to have them play concurrently.

#### System::getMasterChannelGroup
Retrieves a handle to the internal master channel group. This is the default channel group that all channels play on.
This channel group can be used to do things like set the master volume for all playing sounds. See the ChannelGroup API for more functionality.

#### System::getMasterSoundGroup
Retrieves the default sound group, where all sounds are placed when they are created.

#### System::getSoftwareChannels
Retrieves the maximum number of software mixed channels possible.

#### System::getSoundRAM
Retrieves the amount of dedicated sound ram available if the platform supports it.
Most platforms use main ram to store audio data, so this function usually isn't necessary.

#### System::getUserData
Retrieves the user value that that was set by calling the System::setUserData function.

#### System::getVersion
Returns the current version of FMOD Studio being used.

#### System::isRecording
Retrieves the state of the FMOD recording API, ie if it is currently recording or not.

####System::playSound
Plays a sound object on a particular channel and ChannelGroup if desired.
sound
Pointer to the sound to play. This is opened with System::createSound.
channelgroup
Pointer to a channelgroup become a member of. This is more efficient than using Channel::setChannelGroup, as it does it during the channel setup, rather than connecting to the master channel group, then later disconnecting and connecting to the new channelgroup when specified. Optional. Use 0/NULL to ignore (use master ChannelGroup).
paused
True or false flag to specify whether to start the channel paused or not. Starting a channel paused allows the user to alter its attributes without it being audible, and unpausing with Channel::setPaused actually starts the sound.
channel
Address of a channel handle pointer that receives the newly playing channel. Optional. Use 0/NULL to ignore.

#### System::recordStart
Starts the recording engine recording to the specified recording sound.

#### System::recordStop
Stops the recording engine from recording to the specified recording sound.

#### System::getRecordNumDrivers
Retrieves the number of recording devices available for this output mode. Use this to enumerate all recording devices possible so that the user can select one.

#### System::setCallback
Sets a system callback to catch various fatal or informational events.

#### System::release
Closes and frees a system object and its resources.
This function also calls System::close, so calling close before this function is not necessary.

NOTE! Calls to System_Create and System::release are not thread-safe. Do not call these functions simultaneously from multiple threads at once.

#### System::setFileSystem
Specify user callbacks for FMOD's internal file manipulation functions. This function is useful for replacing FMOD's file system with a game system's own file reading API.

#### System::setSoftwareChannels
Sets the maximum number of software mixed channels possible.

This function cannot be called after FMOD is already activated, it must be called before System::init, or after System::close.

#### System::update

Updates the FMOD system. This should be called once per 'game' tick, or once per frame in your application.
