---
layout: post
title: FMOD Audio Engine 01
---

Cocos2d-x采用OpenAL实现Audio Engine音频引擎，目前项目快上线了，音频引擎依旧有不少奇怪的问题，在iOS和Android平台偶现整个AudioEngine失灵的状况，突然音频就不能播放，而且Cocos2d－x对音频的FadeIn、FadeOut支持的很糟糕。但是我对OpenAL很不熟悉，而且Cocos2d－x音频相关代码在不同平台实现不同，很让人头疼。从产品角度应该继续对OpenAL逐渐修改，不宜做大的重构，但音频相关的代码较复杂，而且以前也没有OpenAL开发相关的经验。以前使用过FMODEx Event System，见识过FMOD的强大，代码质量也很高。因而决定采用FMOD Studio实现重构游戏的音频系统，既可以掌握游戏所有的音频模块，一劳永逸，同时也可以和音频策划配合提高游戏的音效品质。

FMOD的优势：

	1.音频策划可以有完整的工具链支持，提高游戏音效品质
	2.FMOD可以接入定制的Memory管理以及FileSystem（Sync和Async）
	3.FMOD成熟稳定，有诸多成熟案例

### FMOD API

FMOD有2套API: FMOD Low Level API和FMOD Studio API。在2者之间曾经还有过FMOD EventSystem API。FMOD Low Level API可以支持原始音频文件（例如mp3，ogg，wav等）。FMOD Low Level API包含如下Classes：System，Sound，Channel，ChannelControl，ChannelGroup，SoundGroup，DSP，DSPConnection，Reverb3D等。

#### FMOD Low Level API —— System

Virtual channels.
These types of voices are the ones you work with using the FMOD::Channel API. The advantage of virtual channels are, unlike older versions of FMOD, you can now play as many sounds as you like without fear of ever running out of voices, or playsound failing. You can also avoid 'channel stealing' if you specify enough virtual voices.

As an example, you can play 1000 sounds at once, even on a 32 channel soundcard.

FMOD will only play the most important/closest/loudest (determined by volume/distance/geometry and priority settings) voices, and the other 968 voices will be virtualized without expense to the CPU. The voice's cursor positions are updated.

When the priority of sounds change or emulated sounds get louder than audible ones, they will swap the actual voice resource over and play the voice from its correct position in time as it should be heard.

What this means is you can play all 1000 sounds, if they are scattered around the game world, and as you move around the world you will hear the closest or most important 32, and they will automatically swap in and out as you move.

Currently the maximum channel limit is 4093.

#### System::attachFileSystem
Function to allow a user to 'piggyback' on FMOD's file reading routines. This allows users to capture data as FMOD reads it, which may be useful for ripping the raw data that FMOD reads for hard to support sources (for example internet streams).

NOTE! Do not use this to 'override' FMOD's file system! That is what setFileSystem is for. This function is purely for 'snooping' and letting FMOD do its own file access, but if you want to capture what FMOD is reading you can do it with this function.

#### System::close
Closes the system object without freeing the object's memory, so the system handle will still be valid.
Closing the output renders objects created with this system object invalid. Make sure any sounds, channelgroups, geometry and dsp objects are released before closing the system object.

#### System::createChannelGroup
Creates a channel group object. These objects can be used to assign channels to for group channel settings, such as volume.
Channel groups are also used for sub-mixing. Any channels that are assigned to a channel group get submixed into that channel group's DSP.

See the channel group class definition for the types of operations that can be performed on 'groups' of channels.
The channel group can for example be used to have 2 seperate groups of master volume, instead of one global master volume.
A channel group can be used for sub-mixing, ie so that a set of channels can be mixed into a channel group, then can have effects applied to it without affecting other channels.

#### System::createSound
Loads a sound into memory, or opens it for streaming.

Important! By default (FMOD_CREATESAMPLE) FMOD will try to load and decompress the whole sound into memory! Use FMOD_CREATESTREAM to open it as a stream and have it play back in realtime! FMOD_CREATECOMPRESSEDSAMPLE can also be used for certain formats.

To open a file or URL as a stream, so that it decompresses / reads at runtime, instead of loading / decompressing into memory all at the time of this call, use the FMOD_CREATESTREAM flag. This is like a 'stream' in FMOD 3.
To open a file or URL as a compressed sound effect that is not streamed and is not decompressed into memory at load time, use FMOD_CREATECOMPRESSEDSAMPLE. This is supported with MPEG (mp2/mp3), ADPCM/FADPCM, XMA, AT9 and FSB Vorbis files only. This is useful for those who want realtime compressed soundeffects, but not the overhead of disk access.
To open a sound as 2D, so that it is not affected by 3D processing, use the FMOD_2D flag. 3D sound commands will be ignored on these types of sounds.
To open a sound as 3D, so that it is treated as a 3D sound, use the FMOD_3D flag. Calls to Channel::setPan will be ignored on these types of sounds.
Note that FMOD_OPENRAW, FMOD_OPENMEMORY, FMOD_OPENMEMORY_POINT and FMOD_OPENUSER will not work here without the exinfo structure present, as more information is needed.

  Use FMOD_NONBLOCKING to have the sound open or load in the background. You can use Sound::getOpenState to determine if it has finished loading / opening or not. While it is loading (not ready), sound functions are not accessable for that sound.

To account for slow devices or computers that might cause buffer underrun (skipping/stuttering/repeating blocks of audio), use System::setStreamBufferSize.

To play WMA files on Windows, the user must have the latest Windows media player codecs installed (Windows Media Player 9). The user can download this as an installer (wmfdist.exe) from www.fmod.org download page if they desire or you may wish to redistribute it with your application (this is allowed). This installer does NOT install windows media player, just the necessary WMA codecs needed.

Specifying FMOD_OPENMEMORY_POINT will POINT to your memory rather allocating its own sound buffers and duplicating it internally
This means you cannot free the memory while FMOD is using it, until after Sound::release is called.
With FMOD_OPENMEMORY_POINT, for PCM formats, only WAV, FSB and RAW are supported. For compressed formats, only those formats supported by FMOD_CREATECOMPRESSEDSAMPLE are supported.

#### FMOD_MODE
FMOD_LOWMEM is used on a sound if you want to minimize the memory overhead, by having FMOD not allocate memory for certain features that are not likely to be used in a game environment. These are :
1. Sound::getName functionality is removed. 256 bytes per sound is saved.

FMOD_2D
Ignores any 3d processing. (DEFAULT).

FMOD_CREATESTREAM
Decompress at runtime, streaming from the source provided (ie from disk). Overrides FMOD_CREATESAMPLE and FMOD_CREATECOMPRESSEDSAMPLE. Note a stream can only be played once at a time due to a stream only having 1 stream buffer and file handle. Open multiple streams to have them play concurrently.

FMOD_CREATESAMPLE
Decompress at loadtime, decompressing or decoding whole file into memory as the target sample format (ie PCM). Fastest for playback and most flexible.

FMOD_CREATECOMPRESSEDSAMPLE
Load MP2/MP3/IMAADPCM/Vorbis/AT9 or XMA into memory and leave it compressed. Vorbis/AT9 encoding only supported in the FSB file format. During playback the FMOD software mixer will decode it in realtime as a 'compressed sample'. Overrides FMOD_CREATESAMPLE. If the sound data is not one of the supported formats, it will behave as if it was created with FMOD_CREATESAMPLE and decode the sound into PCM.
